the United Nations Agency for
Palestinian refugees says a probe into
whether some of its employees took part
in the October 7th terror attack on
Israel will report its findings by next
month now the agency has been rocked by
allegations made by Israel that at least
13 of its employees engaged in Terrorist
acts last October and that hundreds more
work for militant islamist groups
including Hamas in the Gaza Strip some
of the agencies biggest donors including
the US and Germany suspended
contributions because of these claims
I'll be putting these allegations to the
agency's former spokesman in just a
moment but first here's what's being
said right
now and we have discovered uh in the
last few weeks that unra officials were
complicit in the massacre and I think
it's time that the International
Community in the UN itself understand
that un's mission has to end the
Secretary General notes that these
accusations come at a time that un the
largest un organization in the region is
working under extremely challenging
conditions and these people living here
working here unra they are poisoning
poisoning the head the brain of children
in Jerusalem they are poisoning them
against me against Israel against Jews
we have currently 19 donors that have
suspended funding the agency is able to
continue providing Services until the
end of March but then we have no longer
visibility of how the operations will
continue my next guest is Christopher
gunnis the former spokesperson for the
United Nations relief and works agency
he is now executive director the Myanmar
accountability project it's good to have
you with us tonight there's a lot to
talk about here thank you so much Israel
has issued quite an indictment against
your former place of employment um what
do you have to say to
this well Israel has produced some
information I wouldn't use even the word
indictment because it's clear from those
who have seen this document and to be
clear the dossier has never been handed
over to unra either by the Israelis or
by the major donors including the German
government so to be clear the dossier as
it's so called and those who have seen
it can confirm does not actually have
evidence to link un staff members to the
actual massacr so there may be
circumstantial evidence but it's very
clear that the description of this as a
dodgy dossier in reference to the
dossier that tonney Blair used to take
Britain to war in Iraq is perhaps the
right description of it there is no
actual evidence there are accusations
even the New York Times which which has
been a willing accomplice to this piece
of news management even the New York
Times correspondent in Jerusalem has
admitted that much of this information
is basically an Israeli file that is
unchecked it's uncorroborated Anthony
blinkin himself has said that the great
Security Service of the United States
have been unable to confirm this
information independently and yet for
some reason he says he finds it
compelling I mean I don't understand the
logic I think that this decision was
rushed I think it's disproportionate and
I think it's punitive because we have to
think of the people under huge stress in
Gaza under what the icj has called a
plausible genocide they're now
potentially going to be dep sorry let me
let me let me ask you did you expect
this kind of accusation to come from
Israel and did you expect it to come
when it
did well not at all um unra in May last
year gave Israel a staff list of all of
unra workers in the West Bank and in
Gaza and Israel did not come back with
any suspicions or accusations against
any of the staff members that we handed
over the list of and yet surprise
surprise within about a day of the icj
making the accusation that there's a
plausible genocide case to be answered
we have this piece of information coming
out into the press the thing I would say
though it's surprising to me because
unra has a zero tolerance policy towards
these um neutrality violations we work
with our major donors including the
German government we see this as a
partnership with the German government
so the failure such as it's being
described is as much a failure of the
German government that's worked with
anra on these neutrality Frameworks as
it is the staff un and let me say sorry
after you I just want to say that what
you're saying there you're you're you're
saying that the vetting process for for
all of of your team members for all of
your employees that vetting process was
complete and thorough that you don't
have any doubts whatsoever that some
people may have been able to sleep slip
through unra runs the entire staff list
through the security council's terrorism
list and there were no matches but to be
additionally careful as part of this
Zero Tolerance policy that list was
handed over to is
in May 2023 and not a single issue was
raised what more can I say and let me
say this decision by the donors
including Germany that gives unra 200
million euros each year is a violation
of humanitarian principles of
impartiality um it's also a a violation
of international humanitarian law which
forbids food Aid being used as a weapon
of War it's a violation of the icj's
interim provisional measures which made
it clear that no member State should
take any action that would limit
humanitarian Aid and very lastly it's a
violation potentially of the genocide
convention which makes it an obligation
of all state parties to prevent genocide
so frankly Germany stands accused in my
view of being complicit in a in a
violation of a genocide convention and
for a country like Germany with its
history that is something which I think
should be addressed I think there should
be an investigation into whether
Germany's humanitarian Aid was Ring
fenced against political influence and I
think that just as the donor such as
Germany are pointing the finger at unra
and saying well you've been politicizing
your Aid what about Germany Germany is
weaponizing unra and it's doing so let
me say because Israeli far-right
politicians are calling for anra to be
dismantled to be dis to be defunded
destroyed let me pick up on that I mean
there are these calls for for to to be
dismantled what would happen then to the
civilians um in the Gaza Strip if if
you're former agency if if they were not
able to carry out what they're supposed
to do well there are 1.2 million people
on unus food distribution lists and they
are facing starvation so that's why s
Germany would be hell complicit um in
the genocide in in the genocide because
thousands of people may well starve to
death the UN says 400,000 people are
facing starvation imminently Germany
would be complicit in that which as I
say is a violation of the genocide but
it's not just in Gaza Mr G let me just
let me let me just let me just throw out
let me just that that case is before the
world court so um you know there has not
been a a determination that genocide is
happening there so we we don't want to
throw
that do that genocide as a case to
answer we're not saying that anyone
wants anyone to to to starve to death
either my question question to you
though is there is criticism coming that
there may have been Hamas sympathizers
within the ranks of unra um is it
possible to rule that out completely as
a reasonable person can you rule that
out
completely even the 12 people who were
being accused that is 12 or 13 the
figure keeps changing bad apples and
they've not actually the investigation's
not even over unra dismissed these
people before investigation was over so
you know if this if this were to be the
case and it's not proven it would be a
tiny tiny uh percentage of the staff
this to me is proof that the zero
tolerance policy is working that in
somewhere as polarized as Gaza so few un
staff members of C's by Israel to whom
the staff list handed over last May the
please there's lots to talk about I'm
sure that we will have the opportunity
to talk again unfortunately we're out of
time we appreciate you taking the time
to talk with usk tonight thank you
pleasure good
night